# Anticipate Risk

Marty Cagan lists four types of risk that can sink a product. At the Discovery Phase, it's tempting to focus on Demand Risk. But that's just a great way of finding out after you build something that it's unusable, technically unfeasible, and harmful to your business.

## When

As soon as you have new information, but at least when you believe you've discovered a problem and customers for a solution to that problem.

## Why

If you haven't gone through the exercise, you'll almost definitely get blindsided somewhere down the line. It could cost you time, it could cost you the product or even the business. Take 5 minutes to make sure you can **build and sell something people want and can use**.

Btw, this is a separate validation to whether something actually solves the problem. That takes a much more careful user journey mapping, aka [[Work Backwards]]

## General thoughts

- The four risks are: Demand, Usability, Feasibility, Business Viability
- *Every time* you imagine something that's not real yet, these four risks exist
- Having these mapped and visible should mean you can always glance at whether you're going the right way
- Each of these four risks invites you to think of, and prioritise, **the most effective way of mitigating them**

## General approach

- Demand: does a product not exist because there isn't a problem? Have you actually done problem definition in a clear enough way that you can then validate customers exist?
- Usability: does a product not exist because it's just a hard problem to solve and would require more effort than it's worth to learn how to use existing products? Is your solution tackling that?
- Feasibility: can your team build something usable that solves the problem?
- Business Viability: can you make enough money to eat on this?

## Specific tactics

### Demand
- See [[Customer discovery]]

### Usability
- Prototyping

### Feasibility
- Identify hardest part, build toy app that nails the most difficult thing in isolation
- Identify hardest part about integrating new into old
- Identify production scale issues immediately

### Viability
- Do some quick market sizing
- Defend a pricing model to an outsider
- Check compliance ASAP
- Check security ASAP

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Work Backwards]: work-backwards "Work Backwards"
[Customer discovery]: customer-discovery "Customer Discovery"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"