# Customer Obsession

Nobody is going to tell you their problem or their solution. And if they do, they're probably wrong. Invent and simplify on behalf of the customer

Make sure you've got a market before you think of a product. A great product without a market is not a product, it's an art piece.

> If the empty chair [representing the customer] is the ultimate boss at Amazon, then Bezos is its billionaire enforcer, the guardian of what he calls the “culture of metrics” that tries to give that inanimate object a loud, clear voice. Amazon tracks its performance against about 500 measurable goals. Nearly 80% relate to customer objectives.

## When

Always, but also when trying to decide a course of action:

- At feature prioritisation
- At problem discovery level
- When trying to [[invent and simplify]]
- When getting distracted by the competition

## Why

Customer problems should be the biggest driver of what you do. It will end arguments and it will reduce guessing.

## General thoughts

- ?

## General approach

- If you can measure what your customer cares about, do it
- If there are several things that the customers care about, prioritise
- Focus on their succesful outcomes, and [[work backwards]] from there

## Specific tactics

- Personas
- Interviews
- Data mining

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[invent and simplify]: invent-and-simplify "Invent and Simplify"
[work backwards]: work-backwards "Work Backwards"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"