# Customer Discovery

## When

If you're unsure that you're building something people want; in other words if you have correctly identified both a problem and people that have that problem.

## Why

If you're not sure you have a problem and you're not sure you have a customer, you are probably wasting resources.

## General thoughts

- Problems define your customers. Specifically, they unite your customers. So is the problem repeated across multiple people and can you define what groups them?
- A key way to understand your customer's problems is to step into their workflow.
  - A workflow is anything someone is trying to achieve. This can be more or less defined
  - This can be defined in Gherkin: Given a person has these conditions, when they do X, Y doesn't happen (or happen well)
  - So pretty much: pay attention to the 'Given' - it will hint at whether this is a broad or narrow problem
  - Narrow problems are fine, as long as they are valuable enough to eat as you build a solution for them
- Customers may not understand their problems, so you may have to step out of their processes
- **This is not about solutions. If you focus on finding customers who want solutions, you'll end up with horses on steroids**

## General approach

- Diverge, observe and pay attention to broad strokes
- Document at least 6 cases where you see a repeated problem
- Converge on specific hypotheses (this thing / no-thing is a problem because it stops you from doing / not-doing)
- Confirm (get out of the building)

## Specific tactics

- [[Your own itch]]
- [[Find the hackers]]
- Market research
- Survey
- Interview
- Focus group

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Your own itch]: your-own-itch "Your Own Itch"
[Find the hackers]: find-the-hackers "Find the Hackers"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"