# Focused Strategy

The difference between prioritization and focus is that one leaves you with an order of doing things, the other will have maximal impact.

Don't let what is possible get in the way of what is useful. If you are optimizing performance across a codebase, don't make little efficiency gains here and there, step back and find the bottlenecks and clear those first.

From sifting through reams of data, considering the [[strategic context]] (which contains the [[product vision]] but also the realities of running a business, feasabilities of technologies and market conditions), focus on the **most** effective next steps. And chain step after step together on effectiveness or impact.

A product strategy is a series of features and stepping stone products to get your [[product vision]] done. A product vision does not contain a solution, it contains a result. As a result, you might have to hire and fire your old products to get it done. For example, Kazoot m-Tickets >> Kazoot Pass.

Don't base your roadmap on competitors, ever, but look at them to see where they are doing a job badly. This could clue you in to what well solved looks like. Zune didn't fight iPod. Zune fought streaming and just didn't know it. IPod fought streaming and knew it lost, so iPod got fired and Apple Music got hired. Apple won the fight.

"Let go of the past. KiLl It If YoU hAve To"

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[strategic context]: strategic-context "Strategic Context"
[product vision]: product-vision "Product Vision"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"