# Reverse User Journey

A tactic of [[work-backwards]]

## ST

Also (coining) termed as a 'Socratic User Journey', aka a result that we can repeatedly question and maps to our user journey in reverse.

CRITO: My user has gained value!
SOCRATES: And how, friend Crito, did they do that?
CRITO: Well Socrates, they found a restaurant they wanted to go to!
SOCRATES: Why did they do that?
CRITO: Because they read some positive reviews of the place
SOCRATES: And why did they read those reviews?
CRITO: Because they selected the reviews on the restaurant listing?
SOCRATES: And why did they select the reviews?
CRITO: Because they had read the restaurant overview and saw the reviews section.
SOCRATES: And why did they read the restaurant overview?
CRITO: Because they selected it from a list of restaurants ranked by review
SOCRATES: And why did that list appear?
CRITO: Because they searched for Greek Tavernas and ranked the results by review?
SOCRATES: And why did they search?
CRITO: Because they came to my product and found the search box under the hero banner that said 'Find your next great meal'
SOCRATES: And why did they come to your product?
...
CRITO: Because they were hungry
SOCRATES: Now do you see, my friend, how your product was a solution for a user's problem?
CRITO: Verily Socrates, it is so! Please stay away from hemlock...

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[work-backwards]: work-backwards "Work Backwards"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"